# bonita-process-model
Contains the Bonita Process Domain Logic

## License
Copyright (C) 2022 BonitaSoft S.A.
BonitaSoft, 32 rue Gustave Eiffel - 38000 Grenoble

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2.0 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see &lt;http://www.gnu.org/licenses/&gt;.

However, as an exception to the GNU General Public License, programs generated by the "process-reader-archetype" Maven archetype are not subject to the GNU General Public License.
Modules created by using the archetype are not to be considered as derivative work and can be licensed however it pleases their authors.

## Prerequisites
For building the code in this repository : Java [JDK 17+]

For using the libraries released : Java [JDK 11+]

## How to build

### With Eclipse
Different launch configurations exists in this repository. Build Bonita Process Model.launch can be used to compile and build the model java classes. 

In your Eclipse IDE, right click on the launch file, Run as => Build Bonita Process Model. 

A console should appear and after a while, the build will be done. You can found the jar in the target folder of each bundle project. 

### With Maven
```
mvn install
```
This will install all the Bonita Process Domain Logic artifacts and also a maven archetype process-reader-archetype.

## How to use this project into your own work ?
To make it more easy for you, this project contains a maven archetype, which allows to setup a project reading a Bonita Business Process Model file.  

### The maven archetype : process-reader-archetype
This setups a classic maven project that uses:
* [org.bonitasoft.bpm.model] (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-process-model) for knowing the Bonita Process Domain Logic
* [org.eclipse.emf.ecore](https://www.eclipse.org/emf) to manipulate and load the model
* A sample .proc Business Process Model file

#### How to use the archetype
```
mvn archetype:generate \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=org.bonitasoft.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=process-reader-archetype \
    -DgroupId=org.company.bpm \
    -DartifactId=my-process-reader \
    -Dversion=0.0.1-SNAPSHOT \
    -Dpackage=org.company.bpm.reader \
    -DdisplayName="My Custom Process Reader" 
```

#### Optional archetype parameters

| Parameter         | Required   | Default value                     | Description             |
| ------------------|------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| -DarchetypeGroupId| __true__   | org.bonitasoft.archetypes         | Group id of the archetype    |
| -DarchetypeArtifactId| __true__| process-reader-archetype          | Artifact id of the archetype |
| -DarchetypeVersion| __false__  | Latest release version (8.0.0)    | Version id of the archetype  |
| -DgroupId         | __true__   |                                   | Group id of the project      |
| -DartifactId      | __true__   |                                   | Artifact id of the project   |
| -Dversion         | __true__   | suggested and asked interactively | Version of the project, recommanded to use 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT |
| -DdisplayName     | __false__  | suggested and asked interactively | Name of the project displayed|
| -Dpackage         | __false__  | suggested and asked interactively | Name of the root java package|
| -Ddescription     | __false__  |     Describe your project here    | Description of the project   |
| -Dwrapper         | __false__  | true                              | If set to true, project will setup a [maven wrapper](https://github.com/takari/maven-wrapper)|


## Tutorial : displaying the content of a simple process
This tutorial will help you to read the content of a process file from the Bonita Studio and to display the content (tasks, events, transitions... ). 
The code itself is already present in your newly project created.

### The business process model file 
In the resources folder of your newly created project, you should have a MyDiagram-1.0.proc file. 
This file is a Business Process Model File coming from Bonita Studio. It's a very simple process containing 4 tasks and a simple flow.

### Launching the application with App.java
The App.java contain a main method which can be used to launch this application like a java application. It does the following things:
* **Loading the process file:** It will load the process file by using the ModelLoader class present in org.bonitasoft.bpm.model. This loading is very important : it will allow you to manipulate the content of the process itself through emf. 
* **Displaying the content loaded in html:** The ModelDisplayer present in the project created can show you how to display in an html page the content of the process file. It can be used as a way to better understand how emf and the model logic work. 

## EMF Resources Knowledge
- Emf official eclipse documentation: https://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/docs/
- A tutorial describing the usage of Eclipse EMF:  https://www.vogella.com/tutorials/EclipseEMF/article.html